# Input and Output Files

## Overview

This section describes the input and output files used in the Trip End
Model process. The files are described in sets depending on the
containing folder.

## Input Files

The following are input files associated with the Trip End Model.

### Trip End Folder

- `TELMoS_script.py` - this is the file that can be run from
  command-line or other scripting method if batches of runs need to be
  executed; and
- `gui.py` - the GUI version of the Trip End Model.

### Delta Folder

These files should be within a sub-folder within the Delta folder, named
after the TELMoS ID:

- `tav_{tel_year}{tel_id}.csv` - the household and employment planning
  data outputs from the TELMoS model. Contains the following columns:
  zn, households, employment, agriculture and fishing, retail,
  hospitality, local financial, education and health and social
  services;

- `tmfs_{tel_year}{tel_id}.csv` - the population planning data outputs
  from TELMoS, include the columns: Zone, Household, Children,
  Full-Time Male Worker, Full-Time Female Worker, Part-Time Male
  Worker, Part-Time Female Worker, Non-working male, Non-working
  Female, Male Retired and Female Retired; and

- `trfl{tel_year}{tel_id}.dat` - this contains the good vehicle data
  output from the TELMoS commodity model. It contains four columns:
  Goods vehicle type, origin zone, destination zone and value

### Factors Folder

- `RTF.dat` - contains the default Road Traffic Forecast growth
  factors;
- `PTF.dat` - contains the default Public Transport Forecast growth
  factors;
- `Attraction Factors.txt` - Contains the attraction trip rates;
- `airport_factors.csv` - contains the default growth factors for each
  airport zone, available from 2017 to 2050;
- `TripRates.csv` - contains the trip rates used to create synthetic
    productions. Columns required are (in order):
    - purpose - HBE, HBW, HBO, HBS;
    - mode - Car, PT;
    - period - AM, IP, (PM, OP optional);
    - area - 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8;
    - work_type - WAH, WBC - (optional: only required in `TripRatesSplit.csv`);
    - traveller_type - 1 - 88;
    - trip_rate - The trip rate for this segmentation (by default
      rounded to 3 decimal places); and
    - tt_desc - (optional: description of the traveller type)

## Output Files

The following are the output files from the TMfS18 Trip End Model. The
location and examples of the main files are described in Section 3. The
examples below are for a model run that has the TELMoS year set as 18
and the TELMoS scenario as AAL.

### TELMoS Output Files

- `tav_18_AAL.csv` - The attraction trip rates multiplied by the
  planning data vectors for this scenario, used in future pivoting;
- `tmfs18_AAL.csv` - The production trip rates multiplied by the
  planning data vectors for this scenario, used in future pivoting;
- `{period}_{purpose}_D0.CTE` - The trip end files (with car and PT
  splits) - one file for each purpose (HBE, HBW, HBO, HBE) and each
  time period (AM, IP, PM);
- `{period}{purpose}.DAT` - The forecast matrix pre-external smoothing, where:
    - period is one of AM, IP, PM 
    - purpose is one of COM, OTH, EMP, HGV, LGV, PT;
- `{period}{purpose}TE.DAT` - The external trip ends for use in the
  smoothing process - period is one of AM, IP, PM and purpose is one
  of COM, OTH, EMP, HGV, LGV, PT;
- `{purpose}_ADD_18AAL.MAT` - The add-in matrices for this year and
  scenario, contain one table for each time period - purpose is one
  of NWC, NOW, IW, HGV, LGV, PT; and
- `{period}_HS_18AAL.MAT` - The forecast education matrix, the tables
  in the matrix are: C11C, C12C, C2C, C11P, C12P, C2P, C0P - period
  is one of AM, IP, PM.

### Other Data Files

There are a number of other files associated with the Trip End Model.
Firstly, there are the files associated with building the executable
file.

Secondly there are a number of files associated with the CUBE catalog
smoothing process. This manual has described the relevant use of these
files but does not provide further detail as most of these files are
generated automatically by CUBE.